STORY.md, before:

---
layout: single
title: "Story"
permalink: /story/
excerpt: "My programming story."
---

## 2023

### JavaScript and Discord.JS

My programming story begins in 2023. My friend [rolyPolyVole](https://rolyPolyVole.github.io) had been experimenting with Discord bots and the Discord.JS API. 

He created his own custom-made Discord bot called the Void Bot, that had many features. It had custom responses, could send embeds, and much more. It was specially made for his development server and integrated itself into the server very well.

This inspired me to learn JavaScript on [freeCodeCamp](https://freeCodeCamp.org). I completed the course in its entirety during my free time while on vacation. I was very proud to have completed the course.

After that, I tried to follow a [YouTube tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6IgOXmQMT68) by famous YouTuber [Fusion Terror](https://www.youtube.com/@FusionTerror/videos) which explained in detail how to set up a professional and easily expandable codebase for a Discord bot.

At first, I struggled. I found it difficult to understand concepts such as exports and arrow functions, but eventually I got the hang of it and I learned how to create my own commands, buttons, and menus after watching the course to the end. The tutorial series also taught me how to use MongoDB to store user data.

I decided to create my own bot called **Slime Bot**. This bot grew extensively and at the end of its development had >20 commands and features including a quadratic equation solver, an 8ball, and even an embed builder that saved users' embeds to a MongoDB database.

I learned TypeScript at the end of 2023 and migrated the bot over.

## 2024

My friend and I had a lot of free time in the summer of 2024, so we decided to learn how to develop **Minecraft plugins** with Java.

We followed the **LearnSpigot** course on Udemy - an excellent course for plugin developers.

We started developing our own Minecraft server with the intent of it becoming a big network - but we got burnt out after working on it for so long, and with the end of the summer, we didn't have much energy left to work on it, so we moved on to other things, namely a new minigame called [Firework Wars](https://github.com/fireworkwars). We worked on this game until the end of 2024.

### PaperMC Pull Request and Contribution

During my Minecraft plugin development journey, I contributed to the PaperMC project by submitting a pull request that improved the explosion API. This was a significant milestone as it was my first contribution to a major open-source project. The changes I added allowed plugin developers to do more with explosions within the game.

### LearnSpigot Christmas Event Plugin Contribution

As part of the LearnSpigot community, I contributed to the plugin powering their Christmas event. In particular, I added most features of the "King of the Hill" gamemode in a GitHub pull request. It was a great experience to contribute to something that so many people enjoyed.

Commit message:

Add explanation for the story page

STORY.md, after:

---
layout: single
title: "Story"
permalink: /story/
excerpt: "My programming story."
---

This is the story of how I acquired all the skills that I have today.

## 2023

### JavaScript and Discord.JS

My programming story begins in 2023. My friend [rolyPolyVole](https://rolyPolyVole.github.io) had been experimenting with Discord bots and the Discord.JS API. 

He created his own custom-made Discord bot called the Void Bot, that had many features. It had custom responses, could send embeds, and much more. It was specially made for his development server and integrated itself into the server very well.

This inspired me to learn JavaScript on [freeCodeCamp](https://freeCodeCamp.org). I completed the course in its entirety during my free time while on vacation. I was very proud to have completed the course.

After that, I tried to follow a [YouTube tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6IgOXmQMT68) by famous YouTuber [Fusion Terror](https://www.youtube.com/@FusionTerror/videos) which explained in detail how to set up a professional and easily expandable codebase for a Discord bot.

At first, I struggled. I found it difficult to understand concepts such as exports and arrow functions, but eventually I got the hang of it and I learned how to create my own commands, buttons, and menus after watching the course to the end. The tutorial series also taught me how to use MongoDB to store user data.

I decided to create my own bot called **Slime Bot**. This bot grew extensively and at the end of its development had >20 commands and features including a quadratic equation solver, an 8ball, and even an embed builder that saved users' embeds to a MongoDB database.

I learned TypeScript at the end of 2023 and migrated the bot over.

## 2024

My friend and I had a lot of free time in the summer of 2024, so we decided to learn how to develop **Minecraft plugins** with Java.

We followed the **LearnSpigot** course on Udemy - an excellent course for plugin developers.

We started developing our own Minecraft server with the intent of it becoming a big network - but we got burnt out after working on it for so long, and with the end of the summer, we didn't have much energy left to work on it, so we moved on to other things, namely a new minigame called [Firework Wars](https://github.com/fireworkwars). We worked on this game until the end of 2024.

### PaperMC Pull Request and Contribution

During my Minecraft plugin development journey, I contributed to the PaperMC project by submitting a pull request that improved the explosion API. This was a significant milestone as it was my first contribution to a major open-source project. The changes I added allowed plugin developers to do more with explosions within the game.

### LearnSpigot Christmas Event Plugin Contribution

As part of the LearnSpigot community, I contributed to the plugin powering their Christmas event. In particular, I added most features of the "King of the Hill" gamemode in a GitHub pull request. It was a great experience to contribute to something that so many people enjoyed.
